*Preface*

When planning a new book, any author sets a specific goal, sometimes
even several goals. It is well known that dozens of books, textbooks,
manuals, and even laboratory papers with the same title "Data Structures
and Algorithms" have been published. They differ only in the originality
of the structure of the book, the presence of examples and, most
importantly, the programming language that implements the presented
algorithms. Among the leaders are C++, Java, JavaScript, Python.
However, in the last decade, the list of leaders has confidently
included the Golang (Go) programming language, which in certain aspects
has a significant advantage, primarily in relation to the high
efficiency of competitive programming.At the same time, there are much
fewer works on the topic of "Data Structures and Algorithms" that use
the Golang programming language compared to the languages presented
above.

An important point is the designation of the target audience. Most of
the books on the topic are aimed at a wide audience, primarily students
of higher educational institutions. In these books, algorithms for
processing data structures are represented by verbal descriptions and
program codes, the understanding of which is a rather laborious thought
process. Algorithm flowcharts could play a role in this regard, but in
this case the amount of training material would increase significantly,
which is unlikely to make it easier to understand sufficiently complex
algorithms. The situation can be saved by numerous services that reveal
the content of algorithms with the help of illustrations, but they are
fragmentary. In other words, it is rare to find a book that would
combine a verbal description of algorithms in conjunction with their
software implementation and detailed illustrations. However, this is a
debatable issue. However, this is a debatable issue.

Overcoming this drawback, the author ventured to propose a different
approach, called "hybrid", since it combines the methodological
attractiveness of the schematic (graphic) representation of algorithms
in the form of original graphic structures that are automatically
transformed into program code. It is a technology based on the use of a
visual programming language (DRAKON), which results in a set of DRAKON
diagrams that are automatically converted into program code, in this
case in the Golang language. A fragment of the use of this technology is
shown on the cover of the book. During the writing process of the book,
the author constantly pondered the question: to what extent is this
approach more effective than verbal descriptions of algorithms or
comments on program code instructions. Here, another goal of the book
can be formulated: to receive feedback from readers, primarily from
students, in the form of reviews and critical comments. In this regard,
the author hopes for a discussion of the hybrid approach in presenting
the material, which is fundamental in teaching computer science â€“ "Data
Structures and Algorithms." The author also hopes for the understanding
of readers who have found errors and inaccuracies in the presentation of
the material, especially in terms of its design. The hope for indulgence
is due to the following factors: the author is a deep pensioner at the
age of 83 (eighty-three) years old, he got acquainted with the Golang
programming language three years ago, as well as with most of the
algorithms presented in the book. In addition, work on the book
sometimes took place to the sound of explosions, since the author lives
in Ukraine. Finally, this is the author's first experience in writing a
book in English, which can probably be easily detected by native
speakers. And, of course, the process of working on the material would
be extremely difficult, if not impossible, without constant recourse to
Artificial Intelligence services. In any event, the author will be very
grateful to everyone who shows interest in this work and will be
infinitely grateful for the reviews that he hopes to read during his
lifetime

Finally, the author would be even more grateful for a small financial
encouragement for their work, which would significantly increase
motivation to continue as a writer. The next stage involves the creation
of an interactive service based on the fundamentals of algorithmization.
